# llm_bias_detector
A Python tool for perforning naive evaluations of biases in Large Language Models (LLMs). The repository provides scripts and methodologies to identify, measure, and visualize bias in text generated by LLMs.

## Overview
As human interaction with LLMs and AI agents increases, the potential of their biases to influebnce human mental models increases - prompting the need for tools to help us identify those biases. `llm-bias-detector` is a Python tool that extracts and analyses bias in Large Language Models (LLMs) by automating submission of queries to user specified LLM's and statistically analysing LLM responses. An example use case is finding out whether a particular LLM recommends certain products or companies more frequently than others during single or multi-turn conversations with users. `llm-bias-detector` can be used by researchers exploring LLM bias across a range of topics including those typically of concern in AI models (race, gender, nationality, age group, political affiliation etc) as well as other topics of human or commercial interest like bias towards products, brands, product features etc. 

## Features
- Automated query submission to gpt3.5, gpt4 and llama3(8b)
- Generated synthetic conversations to extract bias in more naturalistic interactions
- Evaluation metrics to quantify bias levels
- Visualization of bias trends and patterns
- Extensible Framework: Easily extend the tool to accommodate new types of biases and evaluation metrics.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/llm-bias-assessment.git
cd llm-bias-assessment

2. Create a virtual environment and activate it:
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

3. Install the dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Usage

To evaluate bias in your LLM, use the following command:
python assess_bias.py --model your_model_name --input your_input_file.txt
Example: python assess_bias.py --model gpt-3 --input sample_texts.txt

## Examples

Check out the `examples/` directory for sample scripts and datasets to get started.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) - see the `LICENSE` file for details.

## Contact

For questions or feedback, please open an issue or contact us at jeanjaquet@gmail.com.
